Section 2: Known and Unknown

Sorry, I've spilled water on the book [there's only one book on the table so the listener knows which book]
Sorry, I've spilled water on a book [there are lots of books on the table, and it's not clear to the listener which book].
She needs a chair from the dining room [the listener can see that there are several chairs in the dining room].
She needs the chair from the dining room [the listener can see that there's only one chair in the dining room].
Would you mind opening the door? [I mean the door of the room we are in.
He walked into a door and hit his head [the listener doesn't know which door].
She fell into the river [there's one river in our town].
She fell into a river [the listener doesn't know which river - it could be any river in the country].
I had dinner in the Chinese restaurant [I mean the one near our house].
I had dinner in a Chinese restaurant [there are hundreds in London and the listener doesn't know which one].
I drank the cup of coffee that I'd just bought
I drank a cup of coffee.
John's going out with the French girl who we met last week.
John's going out with a French girl.
I bought a new laptop.
I bought the laptop that I told you about.
David had dinner in a restaurant.
David had dinner in the restaurant that he usually goes to.
He played a piece of music.
He played the piece of music that we were discussing yesterday.
Let's meet in a café.
Let's meet in the café next to my flat.
I picked up the piece of paper on the floor.
I picked up a piece of paper.
Could you put these flowers on a table?
Could you put these flowers on the table next to the door?
I put my new cushion on a chair.
I put my new cushion on the chair next to the fireplace.
She bought a new dress in a shop.
She bought a new dress in the shop next to the supermarket.
Julie crashed her bike into a tree.
Julie crashed her bike into the only tree in her garden.
We went to a restaurant.
We went to the usual restaurant.
John has a yellow car.
John has the same yellow car as Mike.
Let's get a taxi.
Let's get the next taxi.
He brought a cake.
He brought the wrong cake.
She put down a card and won the game.
She put down the right card and won the game.
Everest is the highest mountain in the world.
Who is the oldest person in your family?
This dress was cheapest.
Which language do you think is easiest to learn?
This book is the most serious one on the topic.
I think that one over there is the strongest horse.
This film is shortest.
She's the fastest runner in her school.
That suitcase is lightest.
Out of all the cities in Europe, London is biggest.
I read a lot of books on the subject and this one is the best.
I wake up earliest on Mondays, as I go to a yoga class. On other days I sleep later.
We went to the usual restaurant.
John has a yellow car.
John has the same yellow car as Mike.
Let's get a taxi.
Let's get the next taxi.
He brought a cake.
He brought the wrong cake.
She put down a card and won the game.
She put down the right card and won the game.
Everest is the highest mountain in the world.
Who is the oldest person in your family?
This dress was cheapest.
Which language do you think is easiest to learn?
This book is the most serious one on the topic.
I think that one over there is the strongest horse.
This film is shortest.
She's the fastest runner in her school.
That suitcase is lightest.
Out of all the cities in Europe, London is biggest.
I read a lot of books on the subject and this one is the best.
I wake up earliest on Mondays, as I go to a yoga class. On other days I sleep later.
Amanda's happiest when she's on holiday.
Which student in the class is the happiest?
This juice is most delicious if you chill it for a long time first.
The British Library is best in the mornings. It's too crowded in the afternoons.
John is calmest when he's working.
Of all the people in our office, Adrian is the calmest.
Lucy wakes up the earliest in her family.
Which juice is the most delicious? Apple juice, orange juice or raspberry juice?
He gave me a clock and a picture as a wedding present. The clock belonged to his grandmother.
I took a suitcase and a backpack on holiday. The suitcase was much more useful.
John broke a vase when he was in Marie's house. The vase was over 100 years old.
Julie read a book and a magazine. She said the book was quite boring, though.
I washed a white shirt and a red top together. Now the shirt is pink.
She gave us bread and orange juice. The orange juice was delicious.
I got a book and a magazine from the library.
We watched films and TV programmes all night. The films were better.
She offered us a piece of cake or biscuits.
We had broccoli and cheese for dinner.
I dropped a glass and two bowls. They all broke.
We cooked spaghetti and bacon. John had bought the spaghetti in Rome.
She has a black umbrella and I have a blue one. The blue one is much bigger.
We had a piece of pie and potatoes for lunch. The pie was very good indeed.
I took a bottle of wine and a box of chocolates to the party.
I drank a cup of coffee and ate biscuits. The biscuits had been made by my mother.
She bought shoes and a dress to wear to her sister's wedding.
Ruth has a son and two daughters. One of the daughters is in my class.
They drank water and tea.
At the weekend, I crashed my bike into a car.
I moved into a new flat last month. It's really lovely.
Could you get milk and a bar of chocolate when you are at the shop?
I had pasta and a glass of wine last night. The pasta was really good.
I spilled coffee on the sofa and I dropped a jug of milk on the floor.
John has orange chairs and green carpets!
I bought a new dress, but I was annoyed to find that the zip was broken.
They stopped for a picnic. However, the lemonade was warm.
Amelia went to a restaurant. She saw a famous actress there.
She sat down on a chair, and started reading a book.
They hired a car on holiday, but when they opened the boot, a cat was hiding inside!
William is the cutest baby in London.
Let's start again from the beginning of the song.
I bought a new dress.
Which is your favourite city in the world?
He was wearing the same T-shirt as his brother.
I'll meet you in the usual place.
This is the only dress I could find.
Today is the coldest day of the year.
I bought the wrong book.
He bought a pen and some paper in the shop. The pen was red.
She crashed her bicycle into a car, and broke the windscreen.
She lay on her back on the grass and looked at the sky.
Everest is the highest mountain in the world.
I had a cup of tea and a biscuit. They were both delicious.
Please pass the water jug [there is one water jug on our table.
Have you read the book that I lent you?
I love looking at the planets on a clear night
There's dirt all over his jeans.
What's the title of the film that you saw last night?
There's a post office near the bank.
The page number is at the bottom of each page.
How many planets are in the solar system?
We ate sandwiches and drank water.
I bought a new dress. It has a pattern on the sleeves.
I had a cup of coffee for breakfast.
I met a man and a woman last night. The woman was from Mexico.
She bought a new laptop.
There are people outside.
She wants to sit in the armchair (there is only one armchair in this room).
In the countryside, you can see the stars much more clearly than in the city.
There's a good hairdresser on that road.
I had bread and cheese for lunch.
It's not good for your eyes to look directly at the sun.
Where's the shop that John works in?
I've got a tent, but it's very old.
You can borrow it if you want.
They went for a walk and looked at the moon.
It's on the back of the page.
She gave me the last chocolate.
She put a book in her bag [you don't know which book
She bought the laptop that her brother recommended.
I had lunch in a lovely restaurant. The main course was excellent.
Julie has a sister and two brothers.
Please pass me the coffee on the table (there is one cup of coffee and one table near us.
Sorry, that's the wrong book. I need the one by David Jones.
It's amazing to think about how big the universe is.
John is the tallest in his family.
There are spiders in the bath.
We rented a car on holiday.
She walked into a beautiful house. The kitchen was near the front door
There's a Japanese restaurant near my house.
The artist's name is on the back of the painting.
I bought a new computer.
My brother is in the middle of the photo.
She got new shoes last weekend.
Which is the right answer?
There's luggage in the hall.
This is the most beautiful painting that I've ever seen.
I visited an old castle yesterday.
I bought a new bicycle, but the seat is really uncomfortable.
At the end of the book, they fell in love.


Section 3: Specific and General

He hates cats.
I like the cats that you have.
I gave her back the books that she'd lent me.
Books are expensive.
Rice is very popular in Asia.
Pass the rice please [it's on our table]
It's impressive how clever dogs are.
The dogs that my friend has are really stupid.
Many people say that the love that you feel for your baby is exceptionally strong.
Love is more important than money.
She loves flowers - you could buy her some for her birthday.
I put the flowers that I received for my birthday in a vase
Chocolate is made from cocoa.
She put the chocolate that she bought in the fridge.
I dropped the cakes that you made on the way to the party.
She likes making cakes.
The lions in London Zoo are quite friendly
Lions are very scary animals.
Do you think money is important for a happy life?
I need the money that I left on the table.
We studied German philosophy.
We read about the poetry of Scotland.
He's interested in human happiness.
I took a class on French literature.
The book's about the music of Ireland.
I've never studied the art of the Far East.
I watched a programme on TV about twentieth-century ideas
She writes about modern art.
She's writing her thesis on the philosophy of Hegel.
I read an article about the history of South America.
She read a book about the philosophy of Kant.
He likes eighteenth-century poetry.
There was a documentary about the literature of the United States.
Could you tell me more about Indian music?
She loves Asian food.
This charity tries to help the hungry in poor countries.
How can we provide opportunities for the uneducated?
The Chinese often like green tea.
Many processed foods contain palm oil.
Are cars a problem?
He thinks the rich should pay more tax.
The Prime Minister is trying to help the unemployed.
The elderly are very powerful politically.
She doesn't drink white wine.
Black clothes are popular in northern Europe.
She thought the people of Cambridge were extremely friendly.
I really like eating spicy food.
This new hotel will be very popular with the tourist.
Rats can carry disease.
In the twenty-first century, employees often work at home.
How will this new law affect small business owners?
Young children need a lot of sleep.


Section 4: Using ‘THE’ to talk about abstract ideas



We travelled by boat when we went on holiday.
Laura is on the train.
How do you get to work? On foot?
Can I take the train to San Francisco?
Get off the subway at Central Park North.
She went to Paris by train.
He loves travelling by bike.
You shouldn't talk loudly while you're on the bus.
She could take the plane to Glasgow.
I travel around London by bus.
She sent the information by email.
Did you hear the news on the radio?
Could you find out the time of the train by phone?
The book arrived by post.
Has the mail already arrived?
How much time do you spend on the phone?
The scandal was all over the newspapers.
Could we advertise by mail?
These days news is often communicated on the internet and the TV as well as by radio.
Your document's in the post.
Julie kissed his cheek.
Julie kissed him on the cheek.
Julie held his arm.
Julie held him by the arm.
Julie patted him on the back.
Julie patted his back.
What time do you get up in the morning?
By day he's an accountant, but after work he's the drummer in a rock group.
We usually study in the afternoon.
They often go to the pub at night.
I'm sorry, I can't meet during the week. I'm very busy at work at the moment.
By night, London looks totally different.
He works during the day.
What are you doing at the weekend?
She met her friends in the evening.
It's so cold here! Even in the daytime, it's below freezing.
She works for the fire brigade
We travelled by plane
I really need a holiday at the beach!
Pollution is a major problem in our cities.
Shall we go to the cinema tonight?
I'd love to go to the opera.
Young people don't know enough about literature.
He's worried about crime.
She caught the train at King's Cross station.
The boss said he would contact Julie by phone.
We met at the pub.
Lucy can play the violin beautifully.
I took the bus to the concert.
I need to take my son to the doctor's today, so I can't come to lunch.
I went to the party by car.
My grandmother refuses to put her money in the bank.
I'll send you the bill by email.
I love listening to my husband play the cello.
I can't meet you in the week, as I always work late.
She went from Warsaw to London by bus.
I really love listening to music.
She studies philosophy at university.
John has played the piano since he was a child.
She went to the ballet on her birthday.
Do you like the city?
He hates swimming in the sea, and prefers a swimming pool.
Are you interested in art?
Poverty is the biggest problem we need to solve.
I bought some bread at the baker's.
My cousin is sometimes on the radio talking about the economy.
I took lessons to learn how to play the clarinet.
To succeed as a writer you need luck and good timing.
It's easy to get around Paris by metro.
The parcel will come by post.
They often visit the theatre.
You can take the underground to the restaurant.
I spent two hours on the phone last night.
There was a programme about climate change on TV last night.
Listen to the wind!
She loves nature and often goes for long walks in the country.
She sent the invitation in the post.
Lucy went for a swim, and then to the hairdresser's.
We might take the boat to France.
I'm not rich enough to always travel by taxi!
Responsibility is important for society.
If you have toothache, you should go to the dentist's.
You can exchange money at the post office
We often go to the seaside in summer.
My mother lives in the countryside.
It's important to keep up with technology.
I love going to university by bike.
The satellite is in space.
He travelled around the USA by motorbike.
I went skiing in the mountains.
We usually drink tea at around four o'clock in the afternoon.
Life can be difficult when you don't have much money.
London looks much better in the sunshine.
She travelled around Japan by train.
Unemployment has risen recently.
We learned about global warming at school.
She hates the city and much prefers to live in a village.
How does the government's attitude affect society?
She can't come for coffee because she has to go to the doctor's.
I'd love to live by the sea.
He explored Argentina by motorbike.
Do you spend a lot of time on the phone?
It's important to be happy in the present.
My mother thinks I should put all my money in my savings account at the bank.
In Cambridge, everyone gets around by bike.
He listens to the radio every night.
He's interested in nature and the environment.
I really hate going to the dentist's.
Would you like to travel into space?
Shall we go to the pub later?
He plays the piano very well.
They travelled from England to Spain by boat.
Do you go to work on foot?
We went hiking in the mountains on holiday.
How often do you go to the hairdresser's?
I need to buy some stamps at the post office.
We travelled around Tokyo by underground.
Do you often work in the evening?
She often gets up for a glass of water during the night.
John needs a new tie because he's going to the opera.
He goes to work by car.
The children love the seaside.
I'd love to visit Brazil in the future.
We went for a walk and enjoyed the sunshine.
She lay in bed and listened to the wind outside.
Unemployment is a big problem at the moment
She travelled around California by bus.
His grandfather thinks that climate change is a myth.
What shall we do tomorrow? How about going to the zoo?
The children learn a lot about global warming.
He likes getting up early and walking to the baker's to buy fresh bread.
I often go to Scotland by plane, although occasionally I drive.
She loves playing the violin.
Many companies are trying to reduce pollution.
Can your brother play the guitar?
How can we tackle poverty?
The bill will come in the post.
Did you take the bus home yesterday?
You need luck and skill to win.
How often do you go to the cinema?
He usually takes the plane when he goes to Paris.
How can we use technology to improve everybody's life?
A friend of mine took the train all the way across Russia.
The valley looks beautiful in the rain.
She loves going to the theatre.
I try not to sleep in the daytime.’
She spends a lot of time listening to music.
We often go to the ballet.
Last week, we went to a lecture about history
That's life!
She loves the beach and takes a holiday by the Mediterranean at least twice a year.
We studied the present perfect tense in my English class today.
She sent the money by post.
His brother plays the piano beautifully.
She really knows how to dance the tango.
How will the public react to this new law?
We did the foxtrot all night.
Did you come by taxi?
He usually goes to work by underground.
I like to get up early in the morning.
The Prime Minister promised to reduce crime.
What do you like to do at the weekend?
Can you imagine what it was like to live in the past? No electricity, no mobile phones, no running water!
He studied history at university.
Tim Berners-Lee invented the World Wide Web in the 1980s.
They try to recycle as much as possible as it's good for the environment.
What's the weather like in Australia at the moment?
I really like the climate here - not too hot, not too cold.
Celebrities often have a love/hate relationship with the press.
Most British people trust the police.
She learned the waltz at school.
I usually read the newspaper on Sundays.
The government is reducing the money it gives to science.
I'll be in touch by email.
We often go to the countryside for the weekend.
Please write your essay in the past tense.
You shall know a word by the company it keeps.


Section 5: Using ‘A’ to talk about members of categories



I'm going to buy Julie a cake for her birthday.
I always go to the café around the corner from our house. You know the one.
Could you try to find me a new saucepan when you're at the shops?
What happened to the rest of the soup that we ate yesterday?
We'd like a large bottle of orange juice, please.
The water in my house is really brown!
Pass me the spoon next to your hand, please.
I'm looking for a job.
If I were you, I'd take a taxi to the airport.
Could you lend me a pen?
Do you know a good dentist?
Is there a park near here?
That child looks really cold. She needs a coat.
This is the plant that I told you about. Isn't it beautiful?
I wish I lived in a house by the sea.
She's a lawyer.
That sounds like a lorry outside.
Dr Seuss is a children's book.
Maria and Juan are engineers.
A Ferrari is a kind of car.
Korma is an Indian dish.
Julia works as a waitress.
My nephew looked like an old man when he was born.
Basil is a variety of herb.
A barrister is a sort of lawyer.
That car is a Mercedes.
They are very nice people.
Noriko and Kumiko are students.
David is a professor.
What's in this box? It looks like chocolate!
I work as a teacher.
That sounds like a bell.
Reggae is a kind of music.
My sisters are Ø doctors.
Elizabeth is an extremely intelligent girl
What a cute baby!
What fun!
What heavy rain!
What a day!
What fantastic music!
What a warm evening!
What beautiful clothes!
What a horrible journey!
What an interesting book!
What traffic!
Lucy is a lawyer
What awful weather!
They looked like thieves.
John and Susan are Christians.
Does that farm sell eggs?
This is a sort of magazine.
What delicious cakes!
She's looking for a Japanese teacher.
I need a cup of tea!
Could you pass me a glass?
Do you know a cheap restaurant near here?
We need Ø music!
Could you buy pasta when you're at the shop?
Emma's at the market looking for brown rice.
Are there plants in your office?
This garden needs grass!
What a lovely holiday!
Julie and Luke are nurses.
I want new cushions for my living room.
Do you have lemonade?
John works as an accountant.
What an ugly car!
What a tasty meal!
Several of my friends are vegetarians.
What a fantastic prize!
What interesting buildings
I'd like to be a surgeon when I've finished university.
Espresso is a kind of coffee.
That sounds like water.
What lovely food!
They advertised for receptionists who know Spanish, German and Portuguese.
He'd like new clothes.
She's an actress.
Yoshi and Yuka are Buddhists.
That's a kind of cake.
What a horrible story!
Richard's a taxi driver.
What beautiful shoes!
My parents are police officers.
I'd love a bigger house.


Section 6: Words that generally have ‘No article’



Could you tell me the answer to question 6, please?
The trains from London arrive at platform 7.
Her office is on the third floor.
John, could you read out number three, please?
The description of the house is in section eight of the book.
Could you pass me the first box on the right, please?
The diagram on page 84 is not correct.
The classroom is on the second floor.
His flight leaves from gate 18.
I don't know the answer to the eighth question.
The class will be held in room 336
We need to read the first part of the book for homework.
They live in the third flat.
The date of publication is normally on the first page of the book.
Please look at Ø diagram 23.
This is the first book I've ever read by this author.
Could you begin reading from the beginning of Ø part four?
They live in flat 3.
Is this the first time that you've visited London?
She's the third person I've met this week who knows my sister!
She was elected president.
Catherine is a pilot.
I'm a bank clerk.
Adam is CEO of our company
Ellie was appointed professor of philosophy at Oxford.
Mary was crowned queen in 1543.
John works as a teacher.
Lucy's a lawyer.
He got a new job working as a shop assistant.
He became treasurer in 2010.
Can you speak Turkish?
This book is written in Arabic.
What's the answer to question ten?
The winter that Julie was born was cold and snowy.
Would you like to have dinner at home or shall we go out?
Have you ever tried Ø judo?
Did I tell you about the delicious lunch that we had in Paris?
Elizabeth was elected President of the United States.
He's studying Spanish.
The party is on the third of February.
I learned Ø tennis at school.
I had breakfast in a café yesterday.
What are you doing at Christmas?
Could you write question number four on the board, please?
She speaks English fluently.
He cooked the most amazing dinner.
Would you like to go to the cinema on Friday night?
Baseball is very popular in Japan.
Do you fast during Ramadan?
Could you pass me the third book on the shelf, please?
Do you remember the July when we met?
Shall we have coffee on Monday?
Julie is studying Japanese.
Could you come on the 6th of August?
The information about proper nouns is in Section 9.
Do you play rugby at school?
I love summer!
She can speak Spanish really well.
We often go on holiday in May.
How about meeting on Tuesday afternoon?
Please turn to question D in your exam paper.
He was crowned king in Westminster Abbey.
Fact is, I don't like tea very much, even though I'm British.
Her office is on the second floor.
I love skiing.
The winter that I was in Japan was one of the best winters of my life.
Do you celebrate Easter?
The train leaves from Ø platform 6.
The English that they speak in Glasgow is quite different from how people speak in London.
He was elected Prime Minister.


Section 7: Special cases and difficulities



Look at the sky! It's a beautiful shade of pink!
Neil Armstrong explored in a moon buggy.
Have you had lunch yet?
She can play the guitar really well.
I think we should fix the roof properly now, so we can avoid future problems.
The government needs to think more about protecting the environment.
We had a Russian lesson every Friday when I was at university.
The children made a model of the world.
John has a cough.
The children can't leave the classroom until the lunch bell rings.
She bought a new work outfit.
They are learning to speak Ø Russian.
He's working as a guitar teacher.
Mary bought cough medicine.
She loves sky diving.
She's just graduated from university and is very excited about the future.
She works for an environment agency in Canada.
Did you see the moon last night? It was really bright.
They wished for world peace.
He goes to work on the train every day.
The old actor died in hospital last night.
She sometimes goes to the jail in our city as part of her job.
My son's studying history at university.
When their houses were damaged in the storm, some people slept in the school nearby.
He spent three years in prison.
Have you ever seen the university in Cambridge?
The lawyer stood up in court and spoke to the jury.
The college in our city is very near the river.
Do your parents go to church on Sundays?
Lucy is still at school-she's only fourteen.
I won't break the law-I don't want to go to jail!
My class visited the prison in our town last month - it was very interesting.
We'll meet outside the church at six.
The school children had a tour round the court near their school.
How many classes do you have at college?
I went to the hospital today to see my friend who's a nurse.
John is at home now.
Let's go into town later - I'd like to do some shopping.
I went to bed early last night, but I still feel tired.
The work that Julie is doing at the moment sounds boring.
My son's just rented his first flat and needs furniture - I'm going to give him the bed in our spare room.
I usually arrive at work at about eight thirty.
She bought a book about the homes of the rich and famous.
The town where my mother lives is very pretty.
She has never had the measles.
Unfortunately, he was diagnosed with cancer.
I felt ill, but I didn't have a temperature.
Her grandfather suffered from Ø heart disease.
Julie has a cold, so she's not coming swimming today.
John had a fever, and felt terrible.
He had the flu during the Christmas holidays.
I have such a headache. I think I'll go to bed early.
She had a cough all winter.
I very often get the hiccups.
I don't like the AC at work. It's too cold.
Should we book a B&B or a hotel for our holiday?
She's studying DNA at university.
Where is the headquarters of NASA?
Do you know the ISBN of the book you want?
You should use a sun cream with a high SPF if you have fair skin.
There are a lot of stories about UFOS. People find the idea of life on other planets interesting.
She's wanted to work for the BBC for a long time.
In the film, the hero is running away from the CIA.
Is there an ATM outside the station?
How many member states are there in the EU?
He worked as a reporter for CNN.
The headquarters of the FBI is in Washington D.C.
There are thirty basketball clubs in the NBA.
He left UNICEF some money in his will.
The UN sent aid to the country after the earthquake.
When does the WHO recommend weaning babies?
The website has a FAQ, but I couldn't find the information that I wanted there.
I need to call the bank and ask them to send me a new PIN.
Lord Ismay was the first Secretary General of NATO.
I have a little water left. There's enough to share.
I have a few good friends. I'm not lonely.
He has little education. He can't read or write, and he can hardly count.
There are few people she really trusts. It's a bit sad.
We've got a little time at the weekend. Would you like to meet?
Julie gave us a few apples from her garden. Shall we share them?
She has little self-confidence. She has a lot of trouble talking to new people.
There are few women politicians in the UK. There should be more.
It's a great pity, but this hospital has little medicine. They can't help many people.
I've got a few cakes to give away. Would you like one?
There's a little milk left in the fridge. It should be enough for our coffee.
Few children from this school go on to university, unfortunately.
Do you need information on English grammar? I have a few books on the topic if you would like to borrow them.
She's lucky. She has few problems.
The UK has little sunshine in the winter. That's why so many British people go on holiday to sunny places!
There's a little spaghetti left in the cupboard. Shall we eat it tonight?
There are few programmes on television that I want to watch. I prefer to download a film or read a book



Section 8: Others

It’s not very nice to be calling teachers by the first name. It’s very disrespectful. 
They’ve been working very hard and diligent for each one of you. 
So going forward, I need you to please be courteous, 
Be respectful for our teachers and not to be calling them by their first name
What’s the master plan?
To become rich and famous
You might get there someday keep working at it
Thank you all for coming in/You’re welcome.
Below is an instruction that describes a task. Write a response that appropriately completes the request.