
[No article]
Could you tell me the answer to question 6, please?
The trains from London arrive at platform 7.
Her office is on the third floor.
John, could you read out number three, please?
The description of the house is in section eight of the book.
Could you pass me the first box on the right, please?
The diagram on page 84 is not correct.
The classroom is on the second floor.
His flight leaves from gate 18.
I don't know the answer to the eighth question.
The class will be held in room 336
We need to read the first part of the book for homework.
They live in the third flat.
The date of publication is normally on the first page of the book.
Please look at Ø diagram 23.
This is the first book I've ever read by this author.
Could you begin reading from the beginning of Ø part four?
They live in flat 3.
Is this the first time that you've visited London?
She's the third person I've met this week who knows my sister!
She was elected president.
Catherine is a pilot.
I'm a bank clerk.
Adam is CEO of our company
Ellie was appointed professor of philosophy at Oxford.
Mary was crowned queen in 1543.
John works as a teacher.
Lucy's a lawyer.
He got a new job working as a shop assistant.
He became treasurer in 2010.
Can you speak Turkish?
This book is written in Arabic.
What's the answer to question ten?
The winter that Julie was born was cold and snowy.
Would you like to have dinner at home or shall we go out?
Have you ever tried Ø judo?
Did I tell you about the delicious lunch that we had in Paris?
Elizabeth was elected President of the United States.
He's studying Spanish.
The party is on the third of February.
I learned Ø tennis at school.
I had breakfast in a café yesterday.
What are you doing at Christmas?
Could you write question number four on the board, please?
She speaks English fluently.
He cooked the most amazing dinner.
Would you like to go to the cinema on Friday night?
Baseball is very popular in Japan.
Do you fast during Ramadan?
Could you pass me the third book on the shelf, please?
Do you remember the July when we met?
Shall we have coffee on Monday?
Julie is studying Japanese.
Could you come on the 6th of August?
The information about proper nouns is in Section 9.
Do you play rugby at school?
I love summer!
She can speak Spanish really well.
We often go on holiday in May.
How about meeting on Tuesday afternoon?
Please turn to question D in your exam paper.
He was crowned king in Westminster Abbey.
Fact is, I don't like tea very much, even though I'm British.
Her office is on the second floor.
I love skiing.
The winter that I was in Japan was one of the best winters of my life.
Do you celebrate Easter?
The train leaves from Ø platform 6.
The English that they speak in Glasgow is quite different from how people speak in London.
He was elected Prime Minister.


[Special cases]
Look at the sky! It's a beautiful shade of pink!
Neil Armstrong explored in a moon buggy.
Have you had lunch yet?
She can play the guitar really well.
I think we should fix the roof properly now, so we can avoid future problems.
The government needs to think more about protecting the environment.
We had a Russian lesson every Friday when I was at university.
The children made a model of the world.
John has a cough.
The children can't leave the classroom until the lunch bell rings.
She bought a new work outfit.
They are learning to speak Ø Russian.
He's working as a guitar teacher.
Mary bought cough medicine.
She loves sky diving.
She's just graduated from university and is very excited about the future.
She works for an environment agency in Canada.
Did you see the moon last night? It was really bright.
They wished for world peace.
He goes to work on the train every day.
The old actor died in hospital last night.
She sometimes goes to the jail in our city as part of her job.
My son's studying history at university.
When their houses were damaged in the storm, some people slept in the school nearby.
He spent three years in prison.
Have you ever seen the university in Cambridge?
The lawyer stood up in court and spoke to the jury.
The college in our city is very near the river.
Do your parents go to church on Sundays?
Lucy is still at school-she's only fourteen.
I won't break the law-I don't want to go to jail!
My class visited the prison in our town last month - it was very interesting.
We'll meet outside the church at six.
The school children had a tour round the court near their school.
How many classes do you have at college?
I went to the hospital today to see my friend who's a nurse.
John is at home now.
Let's go into town later - I'd like to do some shopping.
I went to bed early last night, but I still feel tired.
The work that Julie is doing at the moment sounds boring.
My son's just rented his first flat and needs furniture - I'm going to give him the bed in our spare room.
I usually arrive at work at about eight thirty.
She bought a book about the homes of the rich and famous.
The town where my mother lives is very pretty.
She has never had the measles.
Unfortunately, he was diagnosed with cancer.
I felt ill, but I didn't have a temperature.
Her grandfather suffered from Ø heart disease.
Julie has a cold, so she's not coming swimming today.
John had a fever, and felt terrible.
He had the flu during the Christmas holidays.
I have such a headache. I think I'll go to bed early.
She had a cough all winter.
I very often get the hiccups.
I don't like the AC at work. It's too cold.
Should we book a B&B or a hotel for our holiday?
She's studying DNA at university.
Where is the headquarters of NASA?
Do you know the ISBN of the book you want?
You should use a sun cream with a high SPF if you have fair skin.
There are a lot of stories about UFOS. People find the idea of life on other planets interesting.
She's wanted to work for the BBC for a long time.
In the film, the hero is running away from the CIA.
Is there an ATM outside the station?
How many member states are there in the EU?
He worked as a reporter for CNN.
The headquarters of the FBI is in Washington D.C.
There are thirty basketball clubs in the NBA.
He left UNICEF some money in his will.
The UN sent aid to the country after the earthquake.
When does the WHO recommend weaning babies?
The website has a FAQ, but I couldn't find the information that I wanted there.
I need to call the bank and ask them to send me a new PIN.
Lord Ismay was the first Secretary General of NATO.
I have a little water left. There's enough to share.
I have a few good friends. I'm not lonely.
He has little education. He can't read or write, and he can hardly count.
There are few people she really trusts. It's a bit sad.
We've got a little time at the weekend. Would you like to meet?
Julie gave us a few apples from her garden. Shall we share them?
She has little self-confidence. She has a lot of trouble talking to new people.
There are few women politicians in the UK. There should be more.
It's a great pity, but this hospital has little medicine. They can't help many people.
I've got a few cakes to give away. Would you like one?
There's a little milk left in the fridge. It should be enough for our coffee.
Few children from this school go on to university, unfortunately.
Do you need information on English grammar? I have a few books on the topic if you would like to borrow them.
She's lucky. She has few problems.
The UK has little sunshine in the winter. That's why so many British people go on holiday to sunny places!
There's a little spaghetti left in the cupboard. Shall we eat it tonight?
